He began to laugh bitterly; presently lifting his long frame out of the
car seat, he went for a drink of water.  He stood with the cup in his
hand, forgetting to drink.  He could not endure that a woman should
scorn and repudiate him.  The quarrel with Rachel shook him all the
more violently, as, with his habits of mind, he was unaccustomed to
such tempests.  He returned to his seat and fixed his eyes once more on
the flying landscape.

She had shone upon him like sunlight, and passion had awakened--passion
and interest and something besides.  She had stormed at him like a
tempest and finally had mystified him with a fog, best proof of all
that hers was the womanhood for his manhood.  But did he understand?
The pebble rolling down a hill has as much comprehension of the force
that summons it--indeed it has more, for the pebble obeys the force and
Emil St. Ives did not obey.  Instead he set himself squarely about and
took his way back to New York with a smouldering eye; but a fierce,
surprised bird whose pinions had been clipped might have worn just such
a look, and he kept ruffling the feathers of his vanity, for the wings
of his egotism drooped.

Presently he produced paper and pencil, but still boiling, it was
sometime before he could control his thoughts.  Finally, he began to
sketch roughly a plan for an instrument; the next day his humiliation
had so far abated as to permit of his working steadily on the scheme;
and when he reached New York his complacency was practically restored.
On alighting from the train he found awaiting him a little eager,
flushing, paling being in the shape of a woman.

When Emil saw Annie Lawless peering at him from the midst of the crowd
on the platform, a certain new sensation, strong, sweet, but somehow
malign, sprang to life within him.  At least Annie was not indifferent
to him.  His chagrin disappeared and a desperate hardihood took its
place.  It is soothing, as most people will agree, when a golden apple
has been denied us, to have offered for our acceptance a little rosy
plum.  Is it amazing then, that Emil stood ready hand and mouth for the
plum, all the more as he reckoned its flavour, on the whole, rather
pleasant?  With his worn suit-case in one hand and his precious
_depth-indicator_ in the other, he swung down the platform, and Annie,
followed by the ungainly figure of Ding Dong, advanced to meet him.
Then Emil set down the suit-case and the _depth-indicator_ and received
Annie's timid anxious glance in his own dark orbs.  In it plunged, that
little maiden look, and the earth for Annie rocked, though for Emil it
merely oscillated very slightly,--no more than when one has taken a sip
of wine, piquant and a little heady.

Ding Dong gathered up the traps and fell submissively behind the young
couple, and Annie pressed against Emil and clung to him.  What more
natural than that, finding himself unencumbered, he should bend down
and encircle her little figure with his arm?  A rosy plum, a sip of
wine, a little bit of a woman with no wits at all and her heart in her
face, such was Annie.

As for that puzzling mid-region between mind and heart, which was the
region affected in Emil, one might as well attempt to mark out paths in
a wilderness as to set up guideposts there.  Every thought is tinged
with feeling, every feeling is sullied with thought, and the ways are
hopelessly mixed.  But it is a region which stands in no need of
description, for in the range of emotional experience, few people ken
anything beyond this vast temperate zone.  And yet they declare, at the
last, that they have lived!  Pathetic misapprehension!  Nothing is more
uncommon, more unspeakably rare, than a life actually lived.  Only a
person who is at once an intrepid explorer and an inexhaustible artist,
appreciating ever the value of extremes and of contrasts, in short a
genius on every side, is capable of life.

Though Emil had a measure of this capacity, he was hopelessly adrift in
a maze of stupidity; for men, save at exceptional moments, are such a
very small part of themselves.  So he encircled Annie with his arm and,
bringing his face close to hers, kissed her.  And Annie did not utter a
reproach.  She forgot the words that would have formed it.  She forgot
every word in her vocabulary, except one little word that all but
escaped from the hot panting region of her heart.

But she had formed a plan which she remembered.  Dragging Emil into the
waiting room, she indicated two chairs in a quiet corner.  When they
were seated, she put one little gloved hand for a moment over his and
pressed it down hard in order to hold his attention, though this
manoeuvre was not in the least necessary, for she was far from
unpleasing to look upon.  The colour kept chasing the white on her
cheek, for she was frightened by what she had to say and at a loss how
to say it; the sweet peas, pinned in a bunch on the breast of her
jacket, threatened to fly away like a bevy of butterflies with her
tumultuous breathing, and a fascinating little pulse fluttered in her
neck just above the lace of her collar, and Emil, watching it, knew
that it indicated the wild movements of her heart.

What wonder that he almost recovered his wonted spirits in the air of
adoration that breathed from these two humble people?  For Ding Dong,
with his ears like huge excrescences and his legs that seemed to bend
under the weight of his squat body so that he resembled nothing so much
as a grotesque from a cathedral niche,--Ding Dong hung on his look with
exactly as much attention as Annie.  Despite the feeling of sadness
that lurked far down in the depths of his being, Emil perceived afresh
that it was a very good sort of world and that New York was a
marvellous city.  And his egotism began to spread its wings and his
eyes to flash good humouredly.  Being now well beyond the larva stage,
admiration was necessary to him,--it was an air without which he was
unable to exist.

"But how did you know that I would come on this train?" he asked
gently; and, clasping his hands about his knees, he stared at Annie
with a peculiar concentrated interest.

She looked up at him with a faint suggestion of reproach.  "I didn't
know; though I was prepared to wait until you did come," she said.
"The fact is, Alexander," she continued, "what Father has done is
shameful.  It isn't right, and as he's my father, it's only just--well,
I hope you won't take it wrong--but I have a little money which was
left me by an aunt to do with just as I choose.  I've got it all here,
see, in this bag," and she opened the drawstrings.  "It isn't much,
only a thousand dollars, but I thought perhaps--perhaps you would take
it until you could invent something."

To save his life Emil could not prevent the joy that flashed in his
eyes.  To be free to invent, even for a brief space!  It was an
unexpected glimpse straight into Paradise.  He peeped in--just one
peep; then greatly to his credit, considering how little of an ordinary
man he was and how much of a genius,--who resembles a bird of heaven in
his freedom from a sense of obligations,--he shut the door on the
Paradise forcibly.

He bent forward and took both of Annie's hands in his.  Slowly, very
slowly, he shook his head.

"Oh, please!" she supplicated, and her face puckered.  As she looked
straight into his eyes with her own, he saw them suffuse with tears.
The sight of these tears perturbed him so that he was no longer master
of himself.

"But see here, I can't!" he said, and the blood darkened his cheek, "I
can't take money from you; you're mad!"

"Oh, if that's the way you consider me--just like a stranger!"  And
Annie turned sharply aside and buried her face in a scrap of a
handkerchief from which ascended an odour of subtle feminine appeal.

In their excitement both had risen and Emil spread his massive bulk to
screen her distress from the few people who were seated in the
waiting-room.  Never had he been driven into such a net by his own
emotions.

"See here," he cried, bending over her and breathing the words into her
ear, "I consider you my only friend"; and his ardour was augmented by
his remembrance of Rachel.

"Friend?" she repeated, lifting her head and gazing at him through her
tears.  "I'm more than that.  There isn't anything I wouldn't do for
you, and I thought--I thought--"

For an instant Emil saw her judicially.  "So that's it?" he reflected,
but the next instant the male in him was completely glamoured.

For the last time some positive seduction in Annie overcame him.  Love
will polish even a plain woman to something approaching brilliancy, and
Annie was by no means plain.  Her hair gave out a delicate odour; the
pupils of her eyes, usually small, spilled their black over the blue of
the irises; her little mouth emitted a whole troop of sighs; the stuff
of her waist crackled, as if, though it fitted her body, it compressed
her heart.  In truth, that which was the heart in her, the soul in her,
was striving mightily to come to him, and being a man he did not refuse
it.

What he experienced chiefly was a profound astonishment.

He moved back a step in order to study her.  That she felt in this way
toward him was no news, but that she was ready to take the decisive
step now, when his whole outlook was altered....  In his gaze there
grew a peculiar gentleness and simplicity.

"Yes, but what about your father, what will he say?" he inquired,
dallying dreamily with the consideration.

"That poor fellow over there," she went on happily after a moment,
during which she pressed his fingers once or twice, "every time I'd go
to the factory, he'd make the strangest signs, and at first I couldn't
understand what he wanted.  But after a little, I made out that he was
asking about you.  And when Father got in that new man to work on your
machine, Ding Dong, as they call him, just went wild and raged.  He
tried to stand guard over the machine and he locked the door of your
shop.  But finally they got in and he acted so, they had to get rid of
him."

